MoveIt Task Constructor Tutorial (#300)
ros-planning/moveit2_tutorials: doc/tutorials/pick_and_place_with_moveit_task_constructor/pick_and_place_with_moveit_task_constructor.rst

Pick and Place with MoveIt Task Constructor
===========================================

> .. image:: mtc.png

Reviewer: I think it would be nice if this image was a gif

    {
        task_.init();
    }
    catch (moveit::task_constructor::InitStageException& e)
    {
        RCLCPP_ERROR_STREAM(LOGGER, e);
        return;
    }

    if (!task_.plan(5))
    {
        RCLCPP_ERROR_STREAM(LOGGER, "Task planning failed");
        return;
    }
    task_.introspection().publishSolution(*task_.solutions().front());

    auto result = task_.execute(*task_.solutions().front());
    if (result.val != moveit_msgs::msg::MoveItErrorCodes::SUCCESS)
    {
        RCLCPP_ERROR_STREAM(LOGGER, "Task execution failed");
        return;
    }

    return;
    }

    moveit::task_constructor::Task MTCTaskNode::createTask()
    {
    moveit::task_constructor::Task task;
    task.stages()->setName("demo task");
    task.loadRobotModel(node_);

    const auto& arm_group_name = "panda_arm";
    const auto& eef_name = "hand";
    const auto& hand_group_name = "hand";
    const auto& hand_frame = "panda_hand";

    // Set task properties
    task.setProperty("group", arm_group_name);
    task.setProperty("eef", eef_name);
    task.setProperty("hand", hand_group_name);
    task.setProperty("hand_grasping_frame", hand_frame);
    task.setProperty("ik_frame", hand_frame);

>     moveit::task_constructor::Stage* current_state_ptr = nullptr;  // Forward current_state on to grasp pose generator

Reviewer: Some of these lines are too long. I guess you could copy a clang-formatted version, possibly with a shorter line length.
Also, I wouldn't be against doing something like `namespace mtc = moveit::task_constructor`

    rclcpp::NodeOptions options;
    options.automatically_declare_parameters_from_overrides(true);

    auto mtc_task_node = std::make_shared<MTCTaskNode>(options);
    rclcpp::executors::MultiThreadedExecutor executor;

    auto spin_thread = std::make_unique<std::thread>([&executor, &mtc_task_node]() {
        executor.add_node(mtc_task_node->getNodeBaseInterface());
        executor.spin();
        executor.remove_node(mtc_task_node->getNodeBaseInterface());
    });

    mtc_task_node->setupPlanningScene();
    mtc_task_node->doTask();

    spin_thread->join();
    rclcpp::shutdown();
    return 0;
    }

Code Breakdown
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The top of the code includes the ROS and MoveIt Libraries that this package uses.

 * ``rclcpp/rclcpp.hpp`` includes core ROS2 functionality
 * ``moveit/planning_scene/planning_scene.h`` and ``moveit/planning_scene_interface/planning_scene_interface.h`` includes functionality to interface with the robot model and collision objects
 * ``moveit/task_constructor/task.h``, ``moveit/task_constructor/solvers.h``, and ``moveit/task_constructor/stages.h`` include different components of MoveIt Task Constructor that are used in the example

>  * ``tf2_geometry_msgs/tf2_geometry_msgs.hpp`` and ``tf2_eigen/tf2_eigen.hpp`` won't be used in this initial example, but when will be used for pose generation when we add more stages to the MoveIt Task Constructor task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ``tf2_geometry_msgs/tf2_geometry_msgs.hpp`` and ``tf2_eigen/tf2_eigen.hpp`` won't be used in this initial example, but they will be used for pose generation when we add more stages to the MoveIt Task Constructor task.
```

Maybe consider adding the includes together with the other stages

    task.setProperty("hand", hand_group_name);
    task.setProperty("hand_grasping_frame", hand_frame);
    task.setProperty("ik_frame", hand_frame);

Now, we add an example stage to the node. The first line sets ``current_state_ptr`` to ``nullptr``; this creates a pointer to a stage such that we can re-use stage information in specific scenarios. This line is not used at this moment, but will be used later when more stages are added to the task. Next, we make a ``current_state`` stage (a generator stage) and add it to our task - this starts the robot off in its current state. Now that we've created the ``CurrentState`` stage, we save a pointer to it in the ``current_state_ptr`` for later use.

.. code-block:: c++

    moveit::task_constructor::Stage* current_state_ptr = nullptr;  // Forward current_state on to grasp pose generator
    auto stage_state_current = std::make_unique<moveit::task_constructor::stages::CurrentState>("current");
    current_state_ptr = stage_state_current.get();
    task.add(std::move(stage_state_current));

In order to plan any robot motions, we need to specify a solver. MoveIt Task Constructor has three options for solvers:

>  * ``PipelinePlanner`` uses the default MoveIt planner, which is typically OMPL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ``PipelinePlanner`` uses MoveIt's planning pipeline, which typically defaults to OMPL.
```

 * ``CartesianPath`` is used to move the end effector in a straight line in Cartesian space.

>  * ``JointInterpolation`` is a simple planner that interpolates between the start and goal joint states. It is typically used for simple motions as it is fast to plan, but may fail for complex motions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ``JointInterpolation`` is a simple planner that interpolates between the start and goal joint states. It is typically used for simple motions as it computes pretty fast, but it doesn't support complex motions.
```

    auto sampling_planner = std::make_shared<moveit::task_constructor::solvers::PipelinePlanner>(node_);
    auto interpolation_planner = std::make_shared<moveit::task_constructor::solvers::JointInterpolationPlanner>();

    auto cartesian_planner = std::make_shared<moveit::task_constructor::solvers::CartesianPath>();
    cartesian_planner->setMaxVelocityScaling(1.0);
    cartesian_planner->setMaxAccelerationScaling(1.0);
    cartesian_planner->setStepSize(.001);

Now that we added in the planners, we can add a stage that will move the robot. The following lines use a ``MoveTo`` stage (a propagator stage). Since opening the hand is a relatively simple movement, we can use the joint interpolation planner. This stage plans a move to the "open hand" pose, which is a named pose defined in the :moveit_resources_codedir:`SRDF<panda_moveit_config/config/panda.srdf>` for the panda robot.

.. code-block:: c++

    auto stage_open_hand = std::make_unique<moveit::task_constructor::stages::MoveTo>("open hand", interpolation_planner);
    stage_open_hand->setGroup(hand_group_name);
    stage_open_hand->setGoal("open");
    task.add(std::move(stage_open_hand));

    return task;

>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: The indentation was wrong, which makes this look pretty strange (hopefully fixed now), but I think that brace is needed (matches with line 410)

.. code-block:: c++

    int main(int argc, char** argv)
    {
    rclcpp::init(argc, argv);

    rclcpp::NodeOptions options;
    options.automatically_declare_parameters_from_overrides(true);

    auto mtc_task_node = std::make_shared<MTCTaskNode>(options);
    rclcpp::executors::MultiThreadedExecutor executor;

    auto spin_thread = std::make_unique<std::thread>([&executor, &mtc_task_node]() {
        executor.add_node(mtc_task_node->getNodeBaseInterface());
        executor.spin();
        executor.remove_node(mtc_task_node->getNodeBaseInterface());
    });

    mtc_task_node->setupPlanningScene();
    mtc_task_node->doTask();

    spin_thread->join();

    rclcpp::shutdown();
    return 0;
    }

Running the Demo
----------------

Launch files
^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will need a launch file to launch ``move_group``, ``ros2_control``, ``static_tf``, ``robot_state_publisher``, and ``rviz``. :codedir:`Here <tutorials/pick_and_place_with_moveit_task_constructor/launch/pick_place_demo.launch.py>` is the launch file we use in the tutorials package. Put this in the launch directory of your package.

> To run the MoveIt Task Constructor node, we need a second launchfile to start the ``mtc_tutorial`` executable with the proper parameters. Either load your URDF, SRDF, and OMPL parameters, or use MoveIt Configs Utils to do so. Your launch file should look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the MoveIt Task Constructor node, we need a second launch file to start the ``mtc_tutorial`` executable with the proper parameters. Either load your URDF, SRDF, and OMPL parameters, or use MoveIt Configs Utils to do so. Your launch file should look something like this:
```

Start by launching your first launch file. If you want to use the one provided by the tutorials: ::

    ros2 launch moveit2_tutorials mtc_demo.launch.py

RViz should load. If you're using your own launch file, before we can see anything, we will need to configure RViz. If you're using the launch file from the tutorials package, this will already be configured for you.

RViz Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to see your robot and the MoveIt Task Constructor solutions in RViz, we'll have to make some changes to the RViz configuration. First, start RViz. The following steps will cover how to set up RViz for MoveIt Task Constructor solution visualization.

1. If the **MotionPlanning** display is active, uncheck it to hide it for now.
2. Under **Global Options**, change the **Fixed Frame** from ``map`` to ``panda_link0`` if not already done.
3. On the bottom left of the window, click the **Add** button.
4. Under ``moveit_task_constructor_visualization`` select **Motion Planning Tasks** and click OK. The **Motion Planning Tasks** display should appear on the bottom left.
5. In the **Displays**, under **Motion Planning Tasks**,  change **Task Solution Topic** to ``/solution``

> You should see the panda arm in the main view with Motion Planning Tasks display open in the bottom left and nothing in it. Your MTC task will show up in this pane once you launch the ``mtc_tutorial`` node. If you're using ``mtc_demo.launch.py`` from the tutorials, jump back in here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see the panda arm in the main view with Motion Planning Tasks display open in the bottom left and nothing in it. Your MTC task will show up in this panel once you launch the ``mtc_tutorial`` node. If you're using ``mtc_demo.launch.py`` from the tutorials, jump back in here.
```

.. code-block:: c++

  auto stage_move_to_pick = std::make_unique<moveit::task_constructor::stages::Connect>(
      "move to pick",
      moveit::task_constructor::stages::Connect::GroupPlannerVector{ { arm_group_name, sampling_planner } });
  stage_move_to_pick->setTimeout(5.0);
  stage_move_to_pick->properties().configureInitFrom(moveit::task_constructor::Stage::PARENT);
  task.add(std::move(stage_move_to_pick));

Next, we create a pointer to a MoveIt Task Constructor stage object, and set it to ``nullptr`` for now. Later, we will use this to save a stage.

.. code-block:: c++

  moveit::task_constructor::Stage* attach_object_stage =
      nullptr;  // Forward attach_object_stage to place pose generator

This next block of code creates a ``SerialContainer``. This is a container that can be added to our task and can hold several substages. In this case, we create a serial container that will contain the stages relevant to the picking action. Instead of adding the stages to the task, we will add the relevant stages to the serial container.

.. code-block:: c++

  {
    auto grasp = std::make_unique<moveit::task_constructor::SerialContainer>("pick object");

>     task.properties().exposeTo(grasp->properties(), { "eef", "hand", "group", "ik_frame" });

Reviewer: You could mention here that `exposeTo` declares the task properties from the parent task in the new grasp container, `configureInitFrom()` initializes them. This is necessary for allowing the contained stages to access them

      stage->properties().configureInitFrom(moveit::task_constructor::Stage::PARENT);
      stage->properties().set("marker_ns", "grasp_pose");
      stage->setPreGraspPose("open");
      stage->setObject("object");
      stage->setAngleDelta(M_PI / 12);
      stage->setMonitoredStage(current_state_ptr);  // Hook into current state

Before we compute inverse kinematics for the poses generated above, we first need to define the frame. This can be done with a ``PoseStamped`` message from ``geometry_msgs`` or in this case, we define the transform using Eigen transformation matrix and the name of the relevant link. Here, we define the transformation matrix.

.. code-block:: c++

      Eigen::Isometry3d grasp_frame_transform;
      Eigen::Quaterniond q = Eigen::AngleAxisd(M_PI / 2, Eigen::Vector3d::UnitX()) *
                             Eigen::AngleAxisd(M_PI / 2, Eigen::Vector3d::UnitY()) *
                             Eigen::AngleAxisd(M_PI / 2, Eigen::Vector3d::UnitZ());
      grasp_frame_transform.linear() = q.matrix();
      grasp_frame_transform.translation().z() = 0.1;

> Now, we create the ``ComputeIK`` stage, and give it the name ``generate pose IK`` as well as the ``generate grasp pose`` stage defined above. Some robots have multiple inverse kinematics solutions for a given pose - we set the limit on the amount of solutions to solve for to 8. We also set the minimum solution distance, which is a threshold on how different solutions must be: if the joint positions in a solution are too similar to a previous solution, it will be marked as invalid. Next, we configure some additional properties, and add the ``ComputeIK`` stage to the serial container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we create the ``ComputeIK`` stage, and give it the name ``generate pose IK`` as well as the ``generate grasp pose`` stage defined above. Some robots have multiple inverse kinematics solutions for a given pose - we set the limit on the amount of solutions to solve for up to 8. We also set the minimum solution distance, which is a threshold on how different solutions must be: if the joint positions in a solution are too similar to a previous solution, it will be marked as invalid. Next, we configure some additional properties, and add the ``ComputeIK`` stage to the serial container.
```

.. code-block:: c++

  {
    auto stage_move_to_place = std::make_unique<moveit::task_constructor::stages::Connect>(
        "move to place", moveit::task_constructor::stages::Connect::GroupPlannerVector{
                             { arm_group_name, sampling_planner }, { hand_group_name, sampling_planner } });
    stage_move_to_place->setTimeout(5.0);
    stage_move_to_place->properties().configureInitFrom(moveit::task_constructor::Stage::PARENT);
    task.add(std::move(stage_move_to_place));
  }

We also create a serial container for the place stages. This is done similarly to the pick serial container. The next stages will be added to the serial container rather than the task.

.. code-block:: c++

  {
    auto place = std::make_unique<moveit::task_constructor::SerialContainer>("place object");
    task.properties().exposeTo(place->properties(), { "eef", "hand", "group", "ik_frame" });
    place->properties().configureInitFrom(moveit::task_constructor::Stage::PARENT,
                                          { "eef", "hand", "group", "ik_frame" });

> This next stage generates the poses used to place the object and compute the inverse kinematics for those poses - it is somewhat similar to the ``generate grasp pose`` stage from the pick serial container. We start by creating a stage to generate the poses and configuring some properties. We specify the pose where we want to place the object with a ``PoseStamped`` message from ``geometry_msgs`` - in this case, we choose ``y = 0.5``. We then pass the target pose to the stage with ``setPose``.  Next, we use ``setMonitoredStage`` and pass it the pointer to the ``attach object stage`` from earlier. This allows the stage to know how the object is attached. We then create a ``ComputeIK`` stage and pass it our ``GeneratePlacePose`` stage - the rest follows the same logic as above with the pick stages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This next stage generates the poses used to place the object and compute the inverse kinematics for those poses - it is somewhat similar to the ``generate grasp pose`` stage from the pick serial container. We start by creating a stage to generate the poses and inheriting the task properties. We specify the pose where we want to place the object with a ``PoseStamped`` message from ``geometry_msgs`` - in this case, we choose ``y = 0.5``. We then pass the target pose to the stage with ``setPose``.  Next, we use ``setMonitoredStage`` and pass it the pointer to the ``attach object stage`` from earlier. This allows the stage to know how the object is attached. We then create a ``ComputeIK`` stage and pass it our ``GeneratePlacePose`` stage - the rest follows the same logic as above with the pick stages.
```

.. code-block:: c++

    MTCTaskNode::MTCTaskNode(const rclcpp::NodeOptions& options)
      : node_{ std::make_shared<rclcpp::Node>("mtc_node", options) }
    {
    }

This class method is used to set up the planning scene that is used in the example. It creates a cylinder with dimensions specified by ``object.primitives[0].dimensions`` and position specified by ``pose.position.z`` and ``pose.position.x``. You can try changing these numbers to resize and move the cylinder around. If you move the cylinder out of the robot's reach, planning will fail.

.. code-block:: c++

    void MTCTaskNode::setupPlanningScene()
    {
      moveit_msgs::msg::CollisionObject object;
      object.id = "object";
      object.header.frame_id = "world";
      object.primitives.resize(1);
      object.primitives[0].type = shape_msgs::msg::SolidPrimitive::CYLINDER;
      object.primitives[0].dimensions = { 0.1, 0.02 };

      geometry_msgs::msg::Pose pose;
      pose.position.x = 0.5;
      pose.position.y = -0.25;
      object.pose = pose;

      moveit::planning_interface::PlanningSceneInterface psi;
      psi.applyCollisionObject(object);
    }

> This function interfaces with the MoveIt Task Constructor task object. It first creates a task, which includes setting some properties and adding stages. This will be discussed further in the ``createTask`` function definition. Next, ``task.init()`` initializes the task and ``task.plan(5)`` generates a plan, stopping after 5 successful plans are found. The next line publishes the solution to be visualized in RViz - this line can be removed if you don't care for visualization. Finally, ``task.execute()`` executes the plan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function interfaces with the MoveIt Task Constructor task object. It first creates a task, which includes setting some properties and adding stages. This will be discussed further in the ``createTask`` function definition. Next, ``task.init()`` initializes the task and ``task.plan(5)`` generates a plan, stopping after 5 successful plans are found. The next line publishes the solution to be visualized in RViz - this line can be removed if you don't care for visualization. Finally, ``task.execute()`` executes the plan. Execution occurs via an action server interface with the RViz plugin.
```

Now, we add an example stage to the node. The first line sets ``current_state_ptr`` to ``nullptr``; this creates a pointer to a stage such that we can re-use stage information in specific scenarios. This line is not used at this moment, but will be used later when more stages are added to the task. Next, we make a ``current_state`` stage (a generator stage) and add it to our task - this starts the robot off in its current state. Now that we've created the ``CurrentState`` stage, we save a pointer to it in the ``current_state_ptr`` for later use.

.. code-block:: c++

      mtc::Stage* current_state_ptr = nullptr;  // Forward current_state on to grasp pose generator
      auto stage_state_current = std::make_unique<mtc::stages::CurrentState>("current");
      current_state_ptr = stage_state_current.get();
      task.add(std::move(stage_state_current));

In order to plan any robot motions, we need to specify a solver. MoveIt Task Constructor has three options for solvers:

 * ``PipelinePlanner`` uses MoveIt's planning pipeline, which typically defaults to OMPL.
 * ``CartesianPath`` is used to move the end effector in a straight line in Cartesian space.

>  * ``JointInterpolation`` is a simple planner that interpolates between the start and goal joint states. It is typically used for simple motions as it computes pretty fast, but it doesn't support complex motions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * ``JointInterpolation`` is a simple planner that interpolates between the start and goal joint states. It is typically used for simple motions as it computes fast but doesn't support complex motions.
```

        }

We finish our place serial container and add it to the task.

.. code-block:: c++

        task.add(std::move(place));
      }

The final step is to return home: we use a ``MoveTo`` stage and pass it the goal pose of ``ready``, which is a pose defined in the panda SRDF.

.. code-block:: c++

      {
        auto stage = std::make_unique<mtc::stages::MoveTo>("return home", interpolation_planner);
        stage->properties().configureInitFrom(mtc::Stage::PARENT, { "group" });
        stage->setGoal("ready");
        task.add(std::move(stage));
      }

All these stages should be added above these lines.

.. code-block:: c++

      // Stages all added to the task above this line

      return task;
    }

Congratulations! You've now defined a pick and place task using MoveIt Task Constructor!

Visualizing with RViz
---------------------

The task with each comprising stage is shown in the Motion Planning Tasks pane. Click on a stage and additional information about the stage will show up to the right. The right pane shows different solutions as well as their associated costs. Depending on the stage type and the robot configuration, there may only be one solution shown.

> Click a solution to see an animation of the robot following the plan for that stage. Click the "Exec" button in the upper-right portion of the pane to execute the motion.

Reviewer 2: I've been confused by this in the past --- you need to click on the cost of a particular solution, then you can click Execute.

```suggestion
Click one of the solution costs to see an animation of the robot following the plan for that stage. Click the "Exec" button in the upper-right portion of the pane to execute the motion.
```
